
---
layout: blog
title: "Journal"
description: "Misgivings and goals"
mydate: "January 13, 2016"
tags:
- misc
---

Today I learned that on my first day of work I met a long time employee currently holding a director position. I was introduced to him by his first name, and he made small talk with myself and a fellow new hire. I shouldn’t have been surprised to meet one of the first 200 employees of the company, but I was. 

It is still strange. At my previous company, high ranking people never entered the office without a coterie. The senior developers never engaged with the part-timers or new guys outside of the niceties. At TW, I have had almost as much interaction with the big dogs as with the small fries. That will change as I really dig into my work, but it’s really cool to see the flat structure of the organization at work.

One of the lines a dropped in my phone interview was “I want to work with people who view me as a peer, not as a skillset.” I meant it, and I believed TW had that kind of culture, but the sentiment was speculative, even abstract. Now that I’m in the thick of it I am a little frightened. Even my hand is being held firmly is done so in a collaborative way.

The trainer, for lack of a better word, for the six new developers has been working with us all day for the past two days. The first day, we instinctively treated it as a classroom. The second day, we started to drive the discussion and the activity without even really trying. Bill went along with what we thought would be productive (for the most part).

After a day of coding we had a dinner with a bunch of people. There were the nine new hires, Bill, the other trainer, three directors of various programs, and my recruiter. Nine mostly fresh college grads having a casual dinner with people in mostly “senior” roles. It makes sense, why should the inexperienced be segmented away from the experienced? But it’s almost off putting to be on such a relatively even playing field with these people.

I have an astounding amount of learning to do. At school I was always one of the hotshots when it came to code. Now, a philosophy major and a history major are teaching me things every day. There are plenty of things to say about college degrees and how little they mean, but in terms of raw number of years I should be teaching them. Which I do, in some things. But not in many.

And then there’s the social aspect. I know how to act at company dinners when I’m the literal subordinate. I know how to act around people who don’t give a shit. Now, I don’t know what I’m doing. 

Luckily, everyone around me is being encouraging and seems invested in my success. I’m going to try to harness that energy and change my behavior:
I will be relentlessly positive
I will religiously learn
I will talk to everyone

I can no longer pretend the excuse that my environment is holding me back. It’s time to grow.